Jehovah gives us his Holy Spirit, both individually and as a group.
To see evidence of that, we need only go to a part of the world where Jehovah's people
were put under intense pressure.
In South Africa, for example, the government's policy of racial segregation called apartheid
lasted for 46 years until 1994.
Our brothers were pressured to take sides in armed conflict.
Their freedom to worship together was limited, and the prevailing attitudes towards people
of different races threatened their unity.
In this report, we learn how our South African brothers remained united and neutral in
support of God's kingdom.
One afternoon when we came to the station, there were men who were directing things and
we were directed to a coach-wise home.
That was the first time that we saw apartheid being law-enforced.
You could not leave the black areas where your home was without getting a permit.
We were even given a permit that stipulated which area we were allowed to do their preaching
work in.
People would always ask us, what are you doing to fight apartheid?
We had to boldly tell that God's kingdom is the only solution.
God will help the whole earth to live in peace one day, so we cannot take sides on political
issues now.
Here at home in Soweto, we heard the sound of children running in the streets.
We heard the sound of gunshots.
Tear gas was everywhere.
When my husband came home that day, we sat with the children and took out the book
your youth getting the best out of it, and we studied the topic, how do you view your
parents?
This was appropriate because children had the spirit of rebelling against their own
parents.
They went as far as burning people.
They came shouting my son's name, Aquila, Matiba, come out, come out.
And one of them defended him and said, no, no, no, not Aquila.
Aquila does not do these things.
He will never protest.
Oh, I saw Jehovah's hand in this.
Even under those circumstances, Jehovah helped our children not to dwell on the madness
in the streets, and we focused on spiritual things.
In 1968, when I was 19 years old, I was sentenced to jail for refusing to do military service.
Over a period of 20 years, close to 1,000 young white witness men, somebody took their
stand for neutrality in this country.
We used to pray for our white brothers in prison.
People in the black townships respected us for the stand these brothers were taking.
In 1974, over 30,000 black and white brothers met for the afternoon session of the divine
victory assembly.
When we first arrived, there were policemen everywhere.
But after half an hour, they saw how peaceful it was and so they left.
So, those few hours in the dark era of apartheid, we felt that glorious brotherly love
as we praised Jehovah together.
Umfuchu, umoz es ni amozwa, wa kalwa elinye i te'emblezwa.
But the Moses ni amozwa was asked by a group on their way to a political rally, to weld
weapons for them.
You refused to do so.
After their rally, they went back to him and said, you refused to weld our weapons and
some of our comrades were killed in a fight at the rally.
Now you will die.
Brother ni amozwa maintained his neutrality all the way to death and Jehovah will remember
him.
In 1993, I was amazed when a white person came preaching house to house.
They came with another white man who could speak vendor fluently.
They're excited me alone.
And as time went by, I came to realize that this is the true religion because they were
faithful friends and they spoke to me like we were family.
In the late 1980s, the government granted us permission to come in and build kingdom halls
in the black townships.
The local community were absolutely amazed to see all these whites pouring in and working
harder along with their black brothers to build these beautiful kingdom halls.
It was a wonderful privilege to get to know other young people of different races.
Everyone in the congregation feels like family, as long as they see Jehovah.
Today in South Africa, there are more than 100,000 witnesses worshiping together in spirit
and truth.
South Africa has 11 official languages.
And across that cultural variety, our brothers and sisters are all speaking the pure language,
the truth about Jehovah God and his purposes.